README.md, before:

# Stretch

A simple, flexible Jekyll theme for personal websites and blogs.
CSS and HTML only, with a small (optional) JS file to implement a dark / light mode button. 

See a live example [here](http://stretch.penborter.com).

## Installation

Add this line to your Jekyll site's `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "stretch"
```

And add this line to your Jekyll site's `_config.yml`:

```yaml
theme: stretch
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install stretch

## Usage

### Two-colour system

Two colour variables can be used to set all the colours for the theme:

- `$light`
- `$dark`

Variations of these two colours are then derived and used throughout the site. It is recommended that you choose a pair of colours with a high contrast; at the very least you'll want to be able to read the `$light`-coloured text on a `$dark`-coloured background, and vice-versa.

[Here](https://randoma11y.com/) is a suggested resource for generating two-colour pairs.

### List.html

You can choose how to display your collections using the [`list.html`](https://github.com/penborter/stretch/blob/main/_layouts/list.html) layout. This layout has three versions, depending on the front matter you include in your page. See the template's [books](http://stretch.penborter.com/books), [posts](http://stretch.penborter.com/posts), and [projects](http://stretch.penborter.com/projects) pages for examples of the three layouts.

1. A plain list of collection items - set `layout: list` with no other changes required. *E.g.: [Books](http://stretch.penborter.com/books)*
2. A list of collection items separated by year - `layout: list` and `by_date: true` in the front matter. *E.g.: [Posts](http://stretch.penborter.com/posts)*
3. A list of collection items as cards - set `layout: list` and `card: true` in the front matter. *E.g.: [Projects](http://stretch.penborter.com/projects)*

### Other Notes

- An atom / RSS feed (through the jekyll-feed ) is available at `/feed.xml`.
- `picture.html` can be used to provide more customisability to included images, including inserting them at full width.
- Table of Contents included thanks to [jekyll-toc](https://github.com/allejo/jekyll-toc), made by Vladimir Jiminez. 

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/penborter/stretch. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The theme is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

More minor changes, README update

README.md, after:

# Stretch

A simple, flexible Jekyll theme for personal websites and blogs.
CSS and HTML only, with a small (optional) JS file to implement a dark / light mode button. 

See a live example [here](http://stretch.penborter.com).

## Installation

Add this line to your Jekyll site's `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "stretch"
```

And add this line to your Jekyll site's `_config.yml`:

```yaml
theme: stretch
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install stretch

## Usage

### Two-colour System

Two colour variables can be used to set all the colours for the theme:

- `$dark`
- `$light`

Variations of these two colours are then derived and used throughout the site. It is recommended that you choose a pair of colours with a high contrast; at the very least you'll want to be able to read the `$dark`-coloured text on a `$light`-coloured background. 

[Here](https://randoma11y.com/) is a suggested resource for generating two-colour pairs.

### Theme Switch / Dark-Light mode

The theme includes a JS-based theme switch button based on the two theme colours `$dark` and `$light`. 

Basically the colours are swapped throughout when the button is clicked, with some minor exceptions that can be found in the [layout.scss], under the `[data-theme="dark"]` styles. The two colour system will still work if the theme switch button isn't included. 


### List.html

You can choose how to display your collections using the [`list.html`](https://github.com/penborter/stretch/blob/main/_layouts/list.html) layout. This layout has three versions, depending on the front matter you include in your page. See the template's [books](http://stretch.penborter.com/books), [posts](http://stretch.penborter.com/posts), and [projects](http://stretch.penborter.com/projects) pages for examples of the three layouts.

1. A plain list of collection items - set `layout: list` with no other changes required. *E.g.: [Books](http://stretch.penborter.com/books)*
2. A list of collection items separated by year - `layout: list` and `by_date: true` in the front matter. *E.g.: [Posts](http://stretch.penborter.com/posts)*
3. A list of collection items as cards - set `layout: list` and `card: true` in the front matter. *E.g.: [Projects](http://stretch.penborter.com/projects)*

### Other Notes

- An atom / RSS feed (through the jekyll-feed ) is available at `/feed.xml`.
- `picture.html` can be used to provide more customisability to included images, including inserting them at full width.
- Table of Contents included thanks to [jekyll-toc](https://github.com/allejo/jekyll-toc), made by Vladimir Jiminez. 

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/penborter/stretch. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The theme is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
